the US defense secretary Lloyd Austin is
in Tel Aviv for talks on Israel's
military operation in Gaza he's held a
meeting with the Israeli defense
minister yav Galant Israel's been
stepping up its military offensive
despite Rising International pressure
Austin had previously warned Israel
risked a strategic defeat in Gaza if it
failed to protect Palestinian civilians
he'll head back to Bahrain after a
dayong visit before traveling to Qatar
as part of a tour of the Middle East
Israeli media says the government and
Hamas are open to talks on a new
ceasefire and exchange of captives and
prisoners to be mediated by Qatar
negotiations stall at the beginning of
the month after a week-long ceasefire
collapsed Barett Smith joining us now
from Tel Aviv so what are we expecting
from Lloyd Austin's visit
Bernard Rob Lloyd Austin joins a parade
of us officials and some politicians
with a very similar message they support
Israel they're not calling for a
ceasefire but there are too many
civilian casualties Lloyd Austin is the
military man he brings with him a wealth
a retired forar General a wealth of
military experience he was involved in
the early days in American fighting with
the Taliban in Afghanistan he was
involved in the US planning to retake
mosul from Isel so he knows about Urban
Warfare and right at the beginning of
this conflict just a few days after
October 7th he told uh the Israeli
military and the head of the defense
Israel you have too many troops
stationed On the Border you should be
using targeted air strikes at hamas's
Main military at hamas's Main leadership
the Israelis didn't listen and they went
in full bore and are still uh continuing
this very intense air campaign so
there'll be more pressure on Israel to
change Tac and Austin warned in December
he said if you drive civilians into the
hands of the enemy then you risk
replacing a tactic tactical Victory with
a strategic defeat and we see how much
hamas's popularity has increased in the
occupied West Bank
since uh since October the 7th so will
the Israelis listen this time well the
Americans have ma various screws they
can turn not least the significant
financial and military aid that they
give Israel Bernard thank you very much
indeed Bernard Smith talking to us from
Tel Aviv